# Plotting the Eccentric Dipole (ED) model
Here you can find a simple and practical script to plot the intensity of the geomagnetic field at the Earth's surface using the Eccentric Dipole (ED) approach, with data from the COV-OBS.x2 field model (Huder et al., 2020).

## Quick definition:
The Eccentric Dipole (ED) model is an approximation that describes the geomagnetic field as being generated by a dipole displaced from the center of the Earth. the ED model is fully described by four parameters: the dipole amplitude and the three spatial coordinates of the dipole offset relative to the Earth’s center.

## Instructions:
1) Download the `covobsx2.txt` file;
2) Dowload the `ED_model.ipynb` file (or copy its content);
3) Run the `ED_model.ipynb` file (or its content) in Jupyter Notebook (or in other environment);
4) Enjoy the South Atlantic Anomaly (SAA) appearing in blue.

You also can be guided by the schematic representation of Centered Dipole (CD) and ED models, and the mathematical relationships between their geometrical parameters, with the Figure `CD_and_ED_models.png`. 

## Useful references:
* Bartels, J., 1936. The eccentric dipole approximating the Earth’s magnetic field. Terrestrial Magnetism and Atmospheric Electricity 41 (3), 225–250.
* Fraser-Smith, A. C., 1987. Centered and eccentric geomagnetic dipoles and their poles, 1600–1985. Reviews of Geophysics 25 (1), 1–16.
* González-López, A., Osete, M. L., Campuzano, S. A., Molina-Cardín, A., Rivera, P., Pavón-Carrasco, F. J., 2021. Eccentric dipole evolution during the last reversal, last excursions, and holocene anomalies. Interpretation using a 360-dipole ring model. Geosciences225
11 (11).
* Huder, L., Gillet, N., Finlay, C. C., Hammer, M. D., Tchoungui, H., 2020. COV-OBS. x2: 180 years of geomagnetic field evolution from ground-based and satellite observations. Earth, Planets and Space 72, 1–18.
* Koochak, Z., Fraser-Smith, A. C., 2017. An update on the centered and eccentric geomagnetic dipoles and their poles for the years 1980–2015. Earth and Space Science 4 (10), 626–636.
* Nevalainen, J., Usoskin, I. G., Mishev, A., 2013. Eccentric dipole approximation of the geomagnetic field: Application to cosmic ray computations. Advances in Space Research 52 (1), 22–29.
* Sano, Y., Sugiura, M., 1992. New definitions of an eccentric dipole for the geomagnetic field. Physics of the Earth and Planetary Interiors 71 (3-4), 166–179.
* Schmidt, A., 1934. Der magnetische Mittelpunkt der Erde and seine Bedeutung. Gerlands Beitr. Geophys. 41, 346–356.
